In this video I’m going to briefly cover
component and attribute directives.
We’ve already seen how to use Component
directives.
These are first defined within our Component
decorators selector and then used inside of
a template.
An example of this is when we used our bs-app
selector defined inside of our AppComponent.
Lets now walk through how to use attribute
or custom directives.
So you probably won’t be using these all
that often.
Because most of the time you’ll be using
the buil-tin directives to achieve the same
effect.
But I do want to walk you through the example
that’s given to us in the angular docs.
To start with I’m going to create a new
shared folder inside of our app.
We’ll typically want to put inside of this
shared folder any components or directives
that are used in multiple locations within
our application.
And inside here I’m going to create a new
file which is called highlight.directive.ts
So now navigating into the angular docs then
clicking on this advanced link then attribute
directives.
I’ll scroll down a bit.
Now I’m going to copy over the code from
the same file highlight.directive.
So this code here adds a Directive decorator
with a selector that we can use inside of
our html.
Then inside our class we use ElementRef in
order to access the DOM.
As well as Renderer which allows us to change
the DOM element’s style.
So this directive is going to change the background
color of our target element to yellow.
Scrolling down a bit here we see how to use
the directive inside our html, which is to
simply add the selector name inside of the
tag of our choice.
So we’ll open up our appComponent html file
and then add myHighlight to our h1 tag here
at the top.
And now the last thing we need to do is simply
add our directive into the declarations inside
of our appModule file.
So we’ll open up our app.module.ts file.
First, we make sure to import the class name
from our shared folder.
Then we need to add our class to our list
of declarations.
We’ll save those files.
And then when we reload our application, our
highlight directive has now changed the background
color of the element that we’ve targeted.
In the next video we’ll discuss the most
used structural directives Angular provides
us with.